I'm Andrew Barto, and I want
to introduce Rich Sutton,
who was my first student,
and we spent many years
working together.
Both of us are amazed I think
as the app [inaudible] to
the outgrowth of that early work.
And rich, is an amazingly
focused persistent,
man of genius, I think and fancy.
I'm embarrassing
him. A lot of London
the core ideas I really owe
an enormous amount to
Rich, so that's Rich.
Well, I feel like I've
learned an enormous
amount from you Andy.
You have just been essential
to making our work scholarly
and relevant to the modern
age and to the old.
I feel enormously
grounded by all things
I've learned as your
students in those years.
I want to say that
the main thing we did where
we wrote that textbook,
but the main thing we did was we
rediscovered the field
of reinforcement.
I'd like something I'd like
to say that we discovered it,
but I know that you
would react to that
because there's nothing new
under the sun, you
used to tell me.
Great.
If you do find something,
you read, there's nothing wrong
with rediscovering something old,
and you should embrace that.
If you rediscovered the wheel,
as you say, we should
call it the wheel.
There may be a better way.
Maybe a better way, but I
do feel we rediscovered
reinforcement.
We woke it up because it would
add fallings on collect,
and we clarified what it
was and how it's different
from supervised learning.
This is sort of what I was
characterizing as
the origin story
of reinforcement learning.
It was an obvious idea,
Marvin Minsky knew
it in 1960 or '59.
It's so obvious that
everyone knew it,
but then it became overshadowed
by supervised learning until,
Eric Loft started knocking on
people's doors and saying,
"Hey, this is something
that's been neglected."
And as real and as important
and tasked us to figure it out.
In fact, the very first
neural network simulation
on a digital computer by
farmland Clark was a-
1954.
Was a reinforcement
learning system.
In their second paper,
Clark and Farley a year later,
it was the same system
but they focused
on generalization.
Certainly it departed
from the root zone.
After that, your
perceptron and withdraw
Hoff was Error correction.
Even though, some of
the words they used
were trial and error,
they really worked.
Became supervised.
Yes, and there were exceptions,
but as we just said,
Minsky, in admins case,
thesis and his steps paper,
is full of prediction,
TV like things, certainly the
credit assignment problem.
Then his thesis at Princeton
with a reinforcement
learning physical network,
that learn to go through a maze.
I think Minsky lost interest in
it for a number of reasons,
or maybe it was
embarrassed by it.
I don't know, but that is
a reinforcement learning system.
Andy, typical of yourself you are
talking about what other
people did historically,
but maybe typical of me I wanted
to bring it back to what we did,
because I think we
did do something.
I almost did very little
but we recognized,
we just stood up and said,
"This is a thing.
This is the thing that
hasn't been investigated
and it's deserving
an investigation."
And we wrote papers on
associative search networks,
and just really simple ideas,
and made the claim that
this cannot be done.
The combination of association
and trial and error.
I think as you said that
I think at the time,
search for something
that works and
then you will remember,
combining search and memory.
That is the essence
of reinforcing,
then strangely had been wrong.
I discovered something
relevant to that.
Mentalization, that problem
[inaudible] who was
my colleague at
the University of
Massachusetts for a while.
Donald Mickey, talked about
mentalization which is one,
RL is a memorized search.
You do some operation,
and then you remember
the results,
and the next time
you have to do it.
You look it up instead
of recomputing,
and it saves a lot
of time and so on.
In a sense, our RL at its root
is memorized
context-sensitive search.
Pople stone, and actually
at the end of one of
his paper on this 50th,
I forget the date,
but talks about interpolator,
like using polynomials
instead of Lookup table
to look up something
with generalization.
That's what neural
networks do for example.
So we didn't-
We discovered.
We didn't invent memorization,
but through a new use for it.
I don't know if people were doing
memorized search the way
reinforcement learner's.
Here he had this idea of
a distributed approach.
Gold seeking systems made up
of gold seeking components.
He also had the idea of
what you call a
generalized reinforcement,
that one of these units could
be reinforced by all kinds
of signals and not just
our binary signal.
The way I remember
it, the essential,
I know I'm in column,
so it's like an
insight but it's like
that on an absence of insight.
We decided one day,
well maybe just the goal
seeking unit thing.
Maybe that's an interesting
idea all on its own.
Without making
goal-seeking systems
out of ballsy proponents,
and without having a
generalized reinforcement,
would have just have a
specialized reward signal.
We just study that Learning,
and maybe that's the thing.
Maybe that's something that
needs to be worked out.
Like. To me, it was remedies
like maybe just that.
It was like a lethal
level and fancy stuff,
or you're confusing stuff aside.
For the moment, there's
a point to be made,
and I think that's what
reinforcement learning.
It is just focusing on a
learning system that actually
wants something
that does trial and
error and remembers it,
and has to specialized
reward signal.